# Casper 2.0 Deep Dive II

## Introduction

Condor is the code name given to version 2.0 of the Casper platform, it represents a significant upgrade with a slew of new features accompanied by innumerable  optimisations & improvements.  This is the second article in an extended series that aims to provide a high to medium level insight into the extensive work that has gone into the Condor release.  By the end of the series, the astute reader should have gained a fairly deep understanding of the Casper 2.0 platform.  Ideally they will be ready to take on the challenge of contributing to the platform as either an operator, a DApp developer and/or a core contributor.

In this article we will examine user transactions (previously called deploys).  More specifically we will review the expanded set of transaction types and how they are processed by the node's execution engine.

## Transaction Types

Transactions encapsulate user intents.  For example, if Alice intends to transfer CSPR to Bob, she uses software (e.g. a wallet) to construct and sign a transaction that is subsequently dispatched to a trusted node for processing by the network.

Transactions may be either 'native' or 'custom':

- Native transactions are those that interact with system contracts such as mint and/or auction.  They do not require any WASM payload to be constructed,  are normally compact in size, and are processed directly on the metal, i.e. host-side.

- Custom transactions are those that interact with the system via either on-chain smart contracts or in-line session logic.  All such interactions are based upon user-defined WASM binaries, and are executed within one of the node's supported virtual machines.

In Casper 1.0 there was a single native transaction type (Transfer), and a set of custom transaction types (ContractByHash, ContractByHashVersioned, ContractByName, ContractByNameVersioned, ContractBytes). In Casper 2.0 the set of both native & custome transaction types have been expanded.

Casper 2.0 Native Transaction Types:

- System.Mint.Transfer
- System.Mint.Burn
- System.Auction.Bid.Submit
- System.Auction.Bid.Withdraw
- System.Auction.Delegation.Redelegate
- System.Auction.Delegation.Submit
- System.Auction.Delegation.Withdraw
- System.Auction.Staking.Submit
- System.Auction.Staking.Withdraw

Not all work is identical, e.g. a base token (cspr) transfer differs from a smart contract execution.  Therefore

A transaction interacts on-chain smart contracts, such contracts are either system defined or user defined.either system During processing a transaction results in a set of interactions with on-chain contracts.

Casper 1.0 supported a set of 6 transaction types, in Casper 2.0 the set is both refined and expanded.
